# Book-Recommendation-System
Book Recommendation System_Capstone project 4

In a very general way, recommender systems are algorithms aimed at suggesting relevant items to users (items being movies to watch, text to read, products to buy, or anything else depending on industries). 
 
Today the amount of information on the internet grows very rapidly and people need some instruments to find and access appropriate information. One of such tools is called a recommendation system. Recommendation systems help to navigate quickly and receive necessary information. Generally they are used in Internet shops to increase the profit. This paper proposes a quick and intuitive book recommendation system that helps readers to find appropriate books to read next. The overall architecture is presented with  it's detailed description. We used a collaborative filtering method based on Pearson correlation coefficient. Finally the experimental results based on the online survey are provided with some discussions.

During the last few decades, with the rise of Youtube, Amazon, Netflix, and many other such web services, recommender systems have taken more and more place in our lives. From e-commerce (suggest to buyers articles that could interest them) to online advertisement (suggest to users the right contents, matching their preferences), recommender systems are today unavoidable in our daily online journeys.

Recommendation systems are really critical in some industries as they can generate a huge amount of income when they are efficient or also be a way to stand out significantly from competitors. The main objective is to create a book recommendation system for users. Since, here we are trying to recommend books to users based on their past purchases or ratings the user gave previously, we are basically trying different models like Popularity based recommender system, Collaborative filtering based recommender system (user-item or item-item) etc. We will be using the Popularity based recommender system to deal with the cold start problem, where we do not have history of past purchases of a particular user or where the user is totally new.
